# forecast_codefundo

FORECAST
Around 59% of India’s land mass earthquake-prone and around 41 million people are affected by floods annually. Currently, a third of India’s disaster relief fund is directed towards floods and earthquakes, according to a PwC study. Moreover, there is no single platform to provide disaster relief and rescue operations including relief funds, clothing, food and sanitation. For example, all conversations about the Kerala rescue operations were held on social media platforms which was inconvenient and questionable.
We propose a one stop solution to predict earthquakes, floods and provide a dashboard that monitors funds and resource of places affected by these natural disasters.
Earthquakes cause massive collateral damage. However, they can be predicted. Our solution involves the use of a low cost Azure Certified MXChip IOT Board, which has an advanced accelerometer that measures the instantaneous acceleration of a body. When many such MXChips are connected together and installed underground at prominent geo-coordinates, the net average acceleration measured by the chip is relayed directly to the Azure IoT Central. The idea of having a distributed system of boards allows multi-point measurement rather than a single point measurement.  The key advantage of using the board is that we use real time data analysed in the Azure Portal rather than simulated or trained data. Comparing the data to already established thresholds of primary and secondary signals of an earthquake, we can provide foresight on its occurrence. 
The second natural disaster that we plan to address are flash floods. For example, Mumbai faces an exorbitant increase in rainfall and has sea on 3 sides. Humidity is the precursor to rainfall. Further, the types of rain received in different months vary with humidity levels. We have devised a solution which makes use of the Azure MXChip’s humidity sensor to predict rainfall levels based on humidity in the atmosphere. The MXChip will be installed at various places, such as on electric poles, across every area to gather humidity readings. With the help of these readings, we can predict the rainfall of an area and alert citizens.       
Finally, we plan to manage and control disaster affected zones by leveraging a single platform dashboard that is secure, fast and easy to use. The dashboard is divided into 3 tabs. The first tab presents an overview of the entire scenario at the emergency zone including recent developments and items immediately required. The second tab shows funding needed and allows users to contribute to the fund using all major payment apps and digital wallets and a bird’s eye view of all the resources that are required which enables users to contribute accordingly. The third tab has to do with post image surveys and analysis. The area affected is scanned and the image obtained is subjected to OCR which gives a very precise view of buildings and structures missing or damaged. With the influx of data coming in, we use Azure services such as Azure Stream Analytics, Power BI, Azure Machine Learning Studio, Virtual Machine.

